# Roatvirus_Diagnosis_AI
Description: 
      AI based diagnosis of disease is a sophisticated technique to diagnose using supervised learning algorithm based Deep learning approach.In this project I have used 8 classification based Deep learning algorithms (SVM, KNN, Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest, Naïve Bayes, XGBoost) to develop a ML based model that can detect Rotavial infection in children based on the symptoms ( The symptoms are based on Vesikari Scoring System).
   Group A Rotavirus (RV) infections are caused by the transmission of virus particles by direct or indirect way. The resulting infections may cause mild to severe symptoms such as diarrhea, dehydration, fever, and gastroenteritis in children who are less than 5 years old. Group A rotavirus accounts 19% of RV- associated deaths globally. Till date 32G and 47P genotypes of RV have been identified. The Rotavirus VP4 capsid protein interacts with carbohydrate moieties of histo-blood group antigens (HBGAs) present on red blood cells, epithelial tissues, and body fluids of host cells. Some people may have no symptoms from viral infections, but others may have symptoms that are fatal. That is why rotavirus infections are an emerging and dangerous threat for child health. Disease detection is a preliminary step of the healthcare system to detect robust and highly infectious diseases efficiently. The use of Machine Learning algorithms enables automatic diagnosis of the disease and reduces detection errors compared to traditional disease detection techniques. In this paper/discipline, we have established a Machine Learning approach by using AI algorithms like SVM, KNN, Logistic Regression, Naive Bayes, Decision Tree, Random Forest Classifiers, XGBoost to detect and diagnose the presence of rotavirus by taking the symptoms as input. We have collected a dataset from RIMS Hospital of MANIPUR, INDIA. Our data set contains 509 children’s data (less than 5 years old), of whom 365 individuals were tested to have rotavirus infection. The results obtained in the prediction of rotavirus using Machine Learning based supervised algorithms like SVM, KNN, Logistic Regression, Naive Bayes, Decision Tree, Random Forest Classifier and XGBoost with a 80% train data and 20% test data of the main medical data set. Those insights the use of sophisticated classification-based Machine Learning and Artificial intelligence models in disease prediction.   
